======================================
401.4 Untangling Legacy Access Polcies
======================================

-------------------
Learning Objectives
-------------------

* Learn to recognize tangled access control policies.
* Use techniques to untangle co-mingled policies and cohorts.

--------------
Lab Components
--------------

* Grouper

--------
Overview
--------

A baseline of core services services are enabled by default for a broad range of
community cohorts.  The current approach uses a hodge-podge of scripts and
manual intervention to establish a group of "institutional people" that are
granted access to a wide range of services.  The system can best be described as
fragile, brittle, and difficult, if not impossible, to evolve and maintain.  In
other words-- state of the industry.

Last year your CIO came back from Internet2 Summit and declared that your
institution is going to deploy TIER.  You've just managed to get the Grouper
software up and running, when the head of your LMS group, Vicky, bursts into your
office space and tells you that there are 50 visiting scholars showing up on
campus tomorrow, and they all need access to the LMS for a campus-wide lecture
series.

Your co-worker had mentioned this to you before she left for her month long
vacation.  She had told you she had taken care of creating the guest accounts,
and not to worry.  You just need to grant access to the LMS when the time comes.
No problem.

But suddenly, you realize that access is controlled via the "institutional
people" group in your Enterprise Directory Information Tree!  If you add the
scholars to that group, they'll have access to everything on campus!

Before panic sets in, you remember your Grouper training.  You'll need a little
help from Vicky, but with Grouper, you've got this covered.  "OK, Vicky," you say
in a calm, steady voice.  "Here's what I'm going to need your team to do ..."

----------------
Exercise 401.4.1
----------------

*Untangling Policies from Cohorts*

The goal of this exercise is to grant access to the LMS for the 50 visiting
scholar guest accounts *without* granting additional access to those accounts.
Since access control does not happen in a vacuum, you'll need some minimal
assistance from the LMS team.  Vicky's team can configure the LMS to point to a
new group in the LDAP DIT, but that's all the help you'll get.

The basic issue is that the legacy access control mechanisms are based on a 
cohort of loosely defined "institutional people".  All your institution's services
are using this cohort directly to determine who is supposed to have access.

You'll need to use your new Grouper skills to resolve this issue.


