========================
401.1 VPN Access Control
========================

-------------------
Learning Objectives
-------------------

* Use group math and reference groups to analyze legacy authorization groups
* Translate natural language policy into Grouper digital policy
* Implement distributed access management
* Use Grouper to answer access management questions such as "who" and "why"

--------------
Lab Components
--------------

* Grouper
* PSPNG
* OpenLDAP
* `Grouper Deployment Guide <https://spaces.at.internet2.edu/display/Grouper/Grouper+Deployment+Guide+Work+-TIER+Program>`_

--------
Overview
--------

VPN access is currently controlled by an LDAP group. You are not exactly sure
who is in the group or what the policy is, but have a general notion of a
natural language policy as all active faculty and staff, plus exceptions.
However, people have been added to the VPN ldap group mostly by hand over many
years with little to no lifecycle management in place. There is no easy way to
determine who should or should not be in the group. We just had a major breach
which was facilitated by access to the VPN. The compromised account used in the
breach was given to a former consultant and was never deprovisioned. CISO is
coming down hard on us to clean up our act!

----------------
Exercise 401.1.1
----------------

*Gain insight into who exactly has access to the VPN based on the cohorts found
in the legacy VPN authorization group.*

""""""""""""""""""""""
Import Legacy VPN Data
""""""""""""""""""""""

* Create a loader job from the existing ldap vpn authorization group.
* Make sure grouper group counts matches ldap group counts.
* First thing to notice is you can eyeball the types of subjects in Grouper UI.

.. note::
    For small enough groups this might be sufficient, but our VPN group has
    hundreds of subjects.

"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
Use Set Operations for Analysis
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Use intersect composite groups to gain insight into types of cohorts

* `test:vpn:vpn_faculty`: Intersect `ref:faculty` with `test:vpn:vpn_legacy`.
  This yields faculty count (almost) - aha! This explains help desk calls!

* `test:vpn:vpn_employees`: Intersect `ref:staff` with `test:vpn:vpn_legacy`.
  This yields staff count (again almost!)

* `test:vpn:vpn_students`: Intersect `ref:students` with `test:vpn:vpn_legacy`.
  This yields a small count - aha!

* Totals don’t add up...so we have other cohorts too. Who are they?

* Set up composite group to filter out "other cohorts".

* `test:vpn:other_cohorts` = `...:vpn_legacy` - (`...:vpn_faculty` + 
  `...:vpn_employees` + `...:vpn_students`)

  * create `...:vpn_facstaffstudent` (include `...:vpn_faculty`,
       `...:vpn_employees`, `...:vpn_students`)
  * `...:other_cohorts` = `...:vpn_legacy` - `...:vpn_facstaffstudent`

* "Other cohorts" is a relatively small number ... can now eyeball those.

    * fac/staff that are now longer active
    * Contractors, sponsored accounts, etc
    * Others

----------------
Exercise 401.1.2
----------------

*State the natural language policy and create VPN application group and digital
policy.*

#. Natural language policy: "Faculty, staff and exceptions (some students,
   contractors, etc.)"
#. Construct `app:vpn:vpn_authorized|allow|deny` policy groups from appropriate
   reference groups.

   * `ref:faculty`
   * `ref:employees`
   * `app:vpn:ref:vpn_adhoc`

#. Compare counts between ldap vpn group and `app:vpn:vpn_authorized`.
   `vpn_authorized` should be different from the legacy group in the following
   ways:

   * only active accounts
   * only current exceptions (none!)

----------------
Exercise 401.1.3
----------------

*Export `vpn_authorized` to LDAP for use with new VPN config.*

#. Mark/config `vpn_authorized` to export to LDAP.  The PSPNG needs to be
   configured to provision group members. 

   .. literalinclude:: examples/401.1.3-pspng-config.properties
        :language: properties
        :lines: 72-
        :caption: grouper-loader.properties
        :name: 401.1.3-pspng-groupofnames
        :linenos:

#. Open a ticket to switch VPN config to use vpn_authorized.
#. Bask in the glow of TIER IAM goodness...

   * Automatic provisioning/deprovisioning for faculty and staff.
   * Natural language policy - clear and visible.
   * Exceptions management:

        * Still dealing with tickets to add and remove subjects (well at least to add!).
        * No way to distinguish different exceptions.
        * Who is responsible for lifecycle, attestation, etc.?

----------------
Exercise 401.1.4
----------------

*Implement distributed exception management.*

We initially added exceptions to single application reference group. This a
good step, but we still lack an easy way to know the "who and why" of
exceptions. IAM still also getting tickets to add people. In some case, the
expiration is known and added, but most are a one way street-- back to old
practices. How can we do better?

"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
Organize Exceptions to Policy
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Each policy exception is represented by an application specific reference group.

#. Create `app:vpn:ref:vpn_consultants`.  This ACL will be managed by the IAM
   team.
#. Create `app:vpn:ref:vpn_ajohnson409`.  Management of this ACL will be
   delegated to a professor.
 
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Professor Johnson's Special Project
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Professor Johnson (**ajohnson409**) runs a special project that includes various online
resources that can only be accessed from the VPN.  The professor should be able to
control who is allowed to have VPN access for the purpose of accessing his
project's resources.

ACL `app:vpn:ref:vpn_ajohnson409` represents subjects that will access resources
related to Professor Johnson's special project.  In order to delegate management
of this ACL to the professor, we must create a security group and grant it
appropriate permissions:

#. Create `app:vpn:etc:vpn_ajohnson409_mgr`.
#. Add subject `ajohnson409` to this security group. 
#. Grant *UPDATE* and *READ* access on the `...:ajohnson409` access control
   list to this security group.
#. In a private browser window, log into the GTE was account `ajohnson409`, 
   password "password".  You should be able to add and remove members from the
   `vpn_ajohnson409` ACL.

""""""""""""""""""""""
Put Limits on Policies
""""""""""""""""""""""

It is the IAM team's responsibility to make sure that VPN access is granted to the
correct subjects.  Putting some limits in place can help make sure improper
access is not granted.  Attestation makes sure that access which was granted
in the past is still appropriate.

#. Create `ref:iam:global_deny`.  This reference group represents a broad cohort
   of subjects that should not be granted access to most policies.  Subjects
   that fall into this category may be:

   * Termed "with cause"
   * Deceased
   * Other reasons

#. Add `ref:iam:global_deny` to the `app:vpn:vpn_deny` policy.
#. Add attestation requirements to the `app:vpn:ref:vpn_ajohnson409` ACL.

    * Create attestation requirements (30 days).
    * Review notification settings.
    * View :guilabel:`home` -> :guilabel:`misc` -> :guilabel:`attestation settings`.
    * Log in as `ajohnson409` and attest! 
    * View audit log to see who attested group.

#. Add automatic age-off / lifecycle - exceptions only good for 180 days.
   There are 2 techniques:

   * Add member, edit membership, add membership end date.
   * Better approach, use grouper rule to automatically add end date to
     members.  See :ref:`the appendix <apdx-401.1.4-auto-end-date>` for
     details.

#. Use Grouper 2.4 affiliation-based deprovisioning.

All access to VPN is now traceable to natural language policy and known
exceptions! Policy is enforced automatically and kept in sync with changing
subject attributes. Exceptions are known and managed with a defined
attestation lifecycle. VPN policy participates in the global deny policy.

----------------
Exercise 401.1.5
----------------

*CISO is working on a investigation and wants to know if this particular NetID
"blee172" has access to the VPN now or in the past 90 days?*

#. Navigate to `apps:vpn:vpn_authorized`.
#. Search for so-and-so.
#. Open up phpMyAdmin (https://localhost:8443/phpmyadmin/)
#. Open Views, Go to SQL tab, paste in
   :ref:`PIT query <apdx-401.1.5-pit-query>`, Go!

.. _apdx-401.1.5-pit-query:

----------------
Exercise 401.1.6
----------------

*CISO wants to know if anyone on this list of NetIDs has access to the VPN? And
why?*

#. Import list to a test group.
#. Intersect with `vpn_authorized`.
#. Trace membership to determine what level of access and why.

