# Grouper Training Environment - text to copy and paste - 201.4

# Policy Groups and Static Application Permissions

## Learning Objectives

- Understand ACM Policy groups and static application permissions
- Implement grouper security model
- Configure provisioning to LDAP for eduPersonEntitlement
- Configure Shibboleth to release eduPersonEntitlement

## Hands On

### Create policy for wiki application

* Navigate to the _app_ folder
* create a new application (More actions -> New template -> Application)
    - Key: `wiki`
    - Description:
        ```Student wiki```

### Create policy for wiki application

wiki_user is an application-specific role. Subjects in this role have general access to the wiki. The natural language policy is "All students have access to the student wiki, unless they are in the global deny group"

* Navigate to _app:wiki:service:policy_
* Create new policy template:
    - Key: `wiki_user`
    - Description: `Access policy for student wiki`
* Add _ref:student:students_ as a member to _wiki\_user\_allow
* Review he membership of _wiki\_user\_deny
* Visualize policy definition of _wiki\_user_
    - set visualization option *Show number of sibling objects* to 15

### Configure external system for provisioning

Provisioning targets depend on an external system that includes basic connection and configuration. For this lesson, the LDAP system has already been set up with config id "demo".

* Navigate to Miscellaneous > External Systems.
* Location entry for "demo"
* Under Actions, view the details, then test the system


### Configure (review) provisioner

A provisioner has already been set up, eduPersonEntitlement. Review its properties

* Go to Miscellaneous -> Provisioning -> eduPersonEntitlement -> Actions -> Edit provisioner

In this provisioner, members of a group will have their user record in LDAP updated in the eduPersonEntitlement attribute. The entitlement value can be a static string, or will fall back to the group name.

### Create a full sync provisioning job

The provisioner exists, but needs to have either a full sync or incremental job to perform the provisioning.

* Go to Miscellaneous->Daemon jobs
* Under More actions, choose Add daemon
* Create a job:
    - Config id: `eduPersonEntitlement_full_sync`
    Enable: *Yes*
    Daemon type: *Provisioning full sync*
    Provisioner config id: *eduPersonEntitlement*
    Quartz cron: `0 0 4 * * ?`

### Configure provisioning on group

* Navigate back to the _app:wiki:service:policy:wiki\_user_ group
* Under More actions, choose *Provisioning* and assign the new provisioner:
    Target name: *eduPersonEntitlement*
    Type: *Yes*
    Provision: *Yes*
    Entitlement String: `http://sp.example.org/wiki`

### Run provisioner job

* In Miscellaneous -> Daemon jobs, look for job _OTHER\_JOB\edupersonEntitlement\_full\_sync_
* Under job actions, choose *Run job now*
* Click on the hyperlink for the job to go to the job log
* Click on *Apply filter* until the job completes

### Verify Provisioning results

* From the GTE Jump page (https://localhost:8443/) launch the LDAP manager and login.
* Verify users in Grouper _wiki_users_ have an entitlement of http://sp.example.org/wiki (e.g. uid=aalexan2)

### Configure Shib to release eduPersonEntitlement

* Open a private browser, and log in to https://localhost:8443/app with username _abrown_ and password _password_
* Look at value for _eduPersonEntitlement_
