# Grouper Training Environment - text to copy and paste - 201.2

# Access Policy Groups

## Learning Objectives

- Understand the difference between policy groups and reference groups
- Translate natural language policy into digital policy using access policy groups

## Introduction to Access Policy Groups

NIST SP 800-162: natural language policy must be converted to digital policy.

Digital policy is implemented with access policy groups in Grouper.

Access policy group is ideally a composite group whose factors are an allow and a deny group.

The access policy group can in practice contain whatever the policy specifies (e.g. this one ad hoc subject is the only subject with access).

Subject membership in the allow and deny groups should be indirect (through reference groups).

Exceptions to policy in most case should be handled by application scoped reference groups (e.g. ad hoc groups).

Using reference groups in policy ensures that as subject attributes change, the effective membership is up to date and access control decisions are correct.

## Hands on

### Create a new application template

* Navigate to the _app_ folder
* create a new application (More actions -> New template -> Application)
    - Key: `gitlab`
    - Friendly name: `GitLab`
    - Description: `Access policies for the ITS GitLab version control system`

### Create a new policy template

* Navigate to the _app:gitlab:service:policy_ folder
* Create a new policy group (More actions -> New template -> Policy group)
    - Key: `gitlab_access`
    - Friendly name: `GitLab Access`
    - Description: `Overall access policy for the ITS GitLab version control system`

### Create digital policy

The natural language policy is “all faculty and staff have access to GitLab, unless denied by the CISO, or the account is in a closure state. Reference groups are already available.

* Add _ref:role:all_facstaff_ (All Faculty/Staff) to _gitlab\_access\_allow_:
* Review _gitlab\_access\_deny_, it should already have _ref:iam:global\_deny_ as a member

### Review the gitlab_access policy definition

* Navigate to _gitlab\_access_
* Edit visualization settings, change *Show number of sibling objects* from 50 to 5
* Close the configuation
* Click Generate
* Click fullscreen

### Update policy to include Research Computing contractors

* Add basis group for "Research Computing affiliate" (_basis:hr:employee:dept:10901:affiliate_) to _gitlab\_access\_allow_
* Trace membership for Johnny Gardner from gitlab_access (Filter for Johnny Gardner -> Choose action -> Actions -> Trace membership)
* View the audit log on gitlab_access_allow (gitlab_access -> More actions -> View audit log)
* Visualize the _gitlab\_access_ policy definition

### Manage security

Administrative access to the application template folders and groups is controlled by security groups in app:gitlab:security. Security groups are essentially policy groups for Grouper access.

Review the default privileges on gitlab_access_allow.

* Navigate to gitlab_access_allow
* Click on the Privileges tab

The GitLab application is owned by the ITS Infrastructure group. They should have access to update the policy once it is in production.

* Navigate to the _GitLab Updaters_ group.
* Add group _basis:hr:employee:dept:10903:staff_ (Infrastructure staff) to this group
* Navigate to gitlab_access_allow
* Click on the Privileges tab and review
