# Grouper Training Environment - text to copy and paste - 201.1.2

# Basis and Reference Groups (part 2)

## Learning Objectives (continued)

- Understand the difference between reference groups and basis groups
- Create and manage reference and basis groups
- Implement subject attribute lifecycle requirements

## Exercise: All Students Reference Group (continued)

### Include students with no class year

Not all students have class years assigned. This includes part-time students, employees taking course, and non-matriculated students.

Fortunately, data about these students is available in the SIS, and basis groups have already been created for us.

* Add group _basis:sis:prog\_status:year:ac:no\_year_ (name Active No Year)  to _ref:student:students_

How many students are there now?

### Include exchange students

Exchange students from your sister school can take classes, but never have official records in the SIS. However, they do have a local NetID and a basis group is maintained or them.

* Add group _basis:sis:prog\_status:all:es_ (name Exchange Student) to _ref:student:students_

How many students are there now?

### Include ad-hoc transfer students

Students who transfer to your campus often need access well ahead of SIS data being fully updated.

* In folder _ref:student_, create group:
    - name: `Transfer Student`
    - id: `transfer_student`
    - description: `Students recently transfered but not yet in SIS`

* Add the _manual_ object type to this group
    - Type name: `manual`
    - Type: Yes, has direct type configuration
    - Data owner: `Registrar`
    - Member description: `Ad-hoc recent transfer students not yet in SIS`

* Add the following subjects to transfer_student
    - whawkins
    - hyoung
    - jmejia


* Add transfer_student to “students” group

How many students are there now?

The number of students did not go up by 3 as you might have expected. Why? One of the transfer students was already a member of students.

* Trace the membership of each of the transfer students to determine which subject was already students and why.

### Include Leave of Absence students

Students take a leave of absence for a variety of reasons. These students may or may not return, but retain student access for an extend period of time. Basis groups for leave of absence students already exist.

* Add _basis:sis:prog\_status:all:la_ (Leave of Absence) to students

How many students are there now?


### Visualization: What do you mean by “student”?

Review the students reference group by using group visualization

The students reference group is used in access policy for student services. Being a “student” means access to a broad array of student services. This institutionally meaningful cohort is well defined, easily understood, and capable of being extended in a rational way.
