# Grouper Training Environment - text to copy and paste - 401.2

# VPN Access Control part 2

## Hands On

### Translate natural language policy to digital policy

The natural language policy is "Faculty, staff, and some exceptions (students, contractors, etc)"

* Use the application template and the policy group template to create a new `vpn` application folder
* Create a policy group called `vpn_authorized`. Select the policy template option "create allow ad hoc group"
* Add the _All Faculty/Staff_ group to _vpn_authorized_allow_

### Review provisioner

* Go to Miscellaneous > Provisioning->groupOfNames->Actions->Edit provisioner

In this provisioner, a group will sync to a record in LDAP in the _ou=Groups_ tree. The _cn_ value will be the full group name. The _member_ attribute will be multi-valued, containing the LDAP Dn values for the groups' members

### Review full sync provisioning job

A full sync provisioner has already been created for you. Review its status

* Go to Miscellaneous->Daemon jobs
* Filter for job name `OTHER_JOB_groupOfNames_full_sync`
* Click on Edit daemon

### Provision vpn_authorized to OpenLDAP

* Configure provisioning on _app:vpn:service:policy:vpn_authorized_
* Run the full sync provisioner job
* Log in to https://localhost:8443/phpldapadmin and navigate to _ou=groups_. Review your new Grouper managed vpn access control group!


* Investigate exceptions and add to the ad-hoc group as needed
* *Open a service ticket to have the network team switch the VPN config to use vpn_authorized.

Some important goals have been accomplished:
- Automatic provisioning/deprovisioning of VPN access for faculty and staff.
- Natural language policy - clear and visible.
- Exceptions management

This is a huge improvement! However, we are still dealing with tickets to add and remove subjects (well at least to add!) to the ad-hoc group. There is no way to distinguish different exceptions, and it is not clear who is responsible for lifecycle and attestation.

### Implement distributed exception management

Each policy exception is represented by an application specific access control lists (ACL).

* Create `app:vpn:service:policy:vpn_consultants`. This ACL will be managed by the IAM team.
* Create `app:vpn:service:policy:vpn_wri250`. Management of this ACL will be delegated to a course instructor.
* Add each of these ACLs to _vpn_authorized_allow_manual_

Professor Jenkins (`kjenkins`) runs a special project for course WRI250 that includes various online resources that can only be accessed from the VPN. The professor should be able to control who is allowed to have VPN access for the purpose of accessing his project’s resources.

We already created an access control list (ACL) _app:vpn:service:policy:vpn_wri250_ to represent subjects that will access resources related to the special project. In order to delegate management of this ACL to the course instructors, we must create a security group and grant it appropriate permissions:

* Create `app:vpn:security:vpn_wri250_mgr`
* Add the instructors for WRI250 to this security group (hint: there is a basis group for this)
* Grant _vpn_wri250_mgr_ UPDATE and READ to _vpn_wri250_
* Review the privileges on _vpn_wri250_

* In a private browser window, log in to http://localhost:8443/grouper with username `kjenkins` and password `password`. You should be able to add and remove members from the _vpn_wri250_ ACL.
* Add student `mwest` to _vpn_wri250_
* Switch back to `banderson`. Find `mwest` in _vpn_authorized_ and trace membership

### Implement additional policy constraints

It is the IAM team’s responsibility to make sure that VPN access is granted to the correct subjects. Putting some limits in place can help make sure improper access is not granted. Attestation makes sure that access which was granted in the past is still appropriate.

The ref:iam:global_deny reference group represents a broad cohort of subjects that should not be granted access. Subjects that fall into this category may include:
- Termed with cause
- Deceased
- Other reasons

ref:iam:global_deny was automatically added to the vpn_authorized_deny

* As banderson, add 30 day attestation requirements to the _vpn_wri250_ ACL. (vpn_wri250 -> More actions -> Attestation -> Attestation actions -> Edit attestation settings…)
* As `kjenkins`, review attestations (Miscellaneous -> Attestation)

Consultant exceptions should expire automatically after 180 days. There are 2 techniques to accomplish this in Grouper. The first is to simply edit the membership end date after you have added a subject to a group. The second, and more reliable, is to have a rule that runs every time a subject is added which automatically sets the membership end date. Let’s implement the second approach.

* Run ./gte-gsh to get a command prompt.
* Paste into the gsh console

```
// Automatically expire vpn_consultant subject memberships in 180 days
gs = GrouperSession.startRootSession();
numberOfDays = 180;
actAs = SubjectFinder.findRootSubject();
vpn_consultants = GroupFinder.findByName(gs, "app:vpn:service:policy:vpn_consultants");
attribAssign = vpn_consultants.getAttributeDelegate().addAttribute(RuleUtils.ruleAttributeDefName()).getAttributeAssign();
attribValueDelegate = attribAssign.getAttributeValueDelegate();
attribValueDelegate.assignValue(RuleUtils.ruleActAsSubjectSourceIdName(), actAs.getSourceId());
attribValueDelegate.assignValue(RuleUtils.ruleActAsSubjectIdName(), actAs.getId());
attribValueDelegate.assignValue(RuleUtils.ruleCheckTypeName(), RuleCheckType.membershipAdd.name());
attribValueDelegate.assignValue(RuleUtils.ruleThenEnumName(), RuleThenEnum.assignMembershipDisabledDaysForOwnerGroupId.name());
attribValueDelegate.assignValue(RuleUtils.ruleThenEnumArg0Name(), numberOfDays.toString());
attribValueDelegate.assignValue(RuleUtils.ruleThenEnumArg1Name(), "T");
```

* Add Ricardo Johnson (`rjohnso5`) to _vpn_consultants_
* Review Enabled/Disabled status - Membership -> Filter for: -> Advanced -> Enabled/disabled

### Answering Audit Questions - Does "jadams3" have access to VPN? When?

The CISO is working on a investigation and wants to know if this particular NetID "jadams3" has access to the VPN now or in the past 90 days?

* Navigate to _app:vpn:service:policy:vpn_authorized_
* Search for `jadams3` and trace membership.

Joseph currently has access since he is staff. The Point-In-Time (PIT) tables know if he’s had access in the last 90 days. These can be access using the advanced membership filter. This shows his earliest access date.
