
==============================
GTE 201.2 Access Policy Groups
==============================

-------------------
Learning Objectives
-------------------

* Translate a natural language policy group into digital policy using access policy groups.
* Understand the difference between policy groups and reference groups.

--------------
Lab Components
--------------

* Grouper
* `Grouper Deployment Guide`_

--------
Overview
--------

`NIST SP 800-162`_ describes how natural language policy, that is access policy
stated in common language, must be converted to digital policy for any access
control mechanism to effectively operate.  Digital policy is manifest in
Grouper via access policy groups. Subject membership in an access policy group
be indirect and represents a precomputed access policy decision based on subject
attributes (i.e. the subject’s membership in various reference groups).

An **access policy** group is a composite group whose membership is composed of
an include group (i.e. the allow group) minus an exclude group (i.e. the deny
group).  Subject membership in both the allow group and the deny group should be
indirect (i.e. through reference groups) and have a clear mapping to the natural
language policy.  When exceptions to policy are necessary, locally scoped
reference groups should be added.

Limiting policy groups to indirect membership assignments via reference groups
ensures that as subject attributes change, effective membership is up to date and
access control decisions are correct.  It also enables the direct mapping from
natural language policy to digital policy and vice versa.  Individual exceptions to
policy, while not expressly recommended, can be accommodated by adding subjects
directly to the allow/deny groups.

Membership within an access policy group is often kept in sync directly with a target
service or an intermediary like an LDAP based enterprise directory service.
Services can also query Grouper directly for membership assignment.

----------------
Exercise 201.2.1
----------------

*Application folder structure*

#. Create `app:vpn:vpn_authorized`.
#. Create `app:vpn:vpn_allow`.
#. Create `app:vpn:vpn_deny`.
#. Make `vpn_authorized` a composite of `vpn_allow` minus `vpn_deny`.

----------------
Exercise 201.2.2
----------------

*Create digital policy from natural language policy*

Natural language policy is "all faculty, staff have access to vpn, unless denied
by CISO or the account is in a closure state".  Reference groups are already
available.

#. Add `ref:employee:fac_staff` to `vpn_allow`.
#. Add `ref:security:locked_by_ciso` to `vpn_deny`.
#. Add `ref:iam:closure` to `vpn_deny`.

----------------
Exercise 201.2.3
----------------

*Update policy to also allow institutional review board members access to VPN*

New natural language policy is "all faculty, staff and members of the institutional
review board have access to vpn, unless denied by CISO or the account is in a closure
state".

#. Add `org:irb:ref:irb_members` to `vpn_allow`.
#. Add *jsmith* to `org:irb:ref:irb_members`.
#. Trace membership for *jsmith* from `vpn_authorized`.
#. View the audit log on `vpn_allow`.

----------------
Exercise 201.2.4
----------------

*Create security groups for policy*

#. Create `ref:app:vpn:etc` folder.
#. Create `ref:app:vpn:etc:vpn_admins` group.
#. Assign **ADMIN** privilege to `vpn_admins` for `ref:app:vpn`.
#. Inherit privileges to all sub folders (and objects).

    #. Navigate to `app:vpn`.
    #. :guilabel:`More` |rightarrow| :guilabel:`Privileges inherited to objects in folder`
    #. Click :guilabel:`Add Members`, and add `vpn_admins`.
    #. Add admin privileges for folder, group, and attributes.

#. Navigate to `ref:app:vpn:ref:vpn_allow`.
#. Click :guilabel:`Privileges` |rightarrow| :guilabel:`Actions` |rightarrow| :guilabel:`Trace Priviliges`.



.. |rightarrow| unicode:: U+2192

.. _NIST SP 800-162: https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-162/final
.. _Grouper Deployment Guide: https://spaces.at.internet2.edu/display/Grouper/Grouper+Deployment+Guide+Work+-TIER+Program

