
======================================
GTE 201.5 ACM3 Subject to Role Mapping
======================================

-------------------
Learning Objectives
-------------------

* Understand ACM3 and how to use grouper policy groups  with application specific roles
* Implement delegated access control
* Configure attestation

--------------
Lab Components
--------------

* Grouper
* `Grouper Deployment Guide`_

--------
Overview
--------

In applications with sophisticated RBAC capabilities, fine-grained permission
sets are typically configured via an administrative interface within the
application itself.  These permission sets are then associated with a role name
that can be mapped to a set of users.  In this model, the user to role mapping
is done in Grouper by pairing a normal access control group with the role name
defined at the target service.  The policy indicating which subjects are mapped
to application roles (permissions sets) can be attribute based or a simple
access control list, or some combination of both.

ACM3 is implemented using Grouper as follows:

* Subject |rightarrow| Role assignment is made in Grouper.  Access control policies are used to represent Roles.
* Fine-grained permission sets are managed at the target service and assigned a Role Name
* Grouper access control groups are mapped to target service Role Name, completing the User |rightarrow| Role mapping
* PAP split between Grouper and target service, PDP and PEP at service

----------------
Exercise 201.5.1
----------------

*Create application folder and group set*

Use wizard template (or gsh script) to create new application folder/group set.

#. Create `app:cognos:service:security:cg_adv_manager`.
#. Create `app:cognos:service:ref` folder.
#. Create `app:cognos:service:policy` folder.
#. Create `app:congos:service:policy:cg_adv_report_reader|allow|deny`.
#. Create `app:congos:service:policy:cg_adv_report_writer|allow|deny`.

----------------
Exercise 201.5.2
----------------

*Add reference groups to policy*

#. Add `ref:dept:advancement` to `cg_adv_report_reader_allow`.

----------------
Exercise 201.5.3
----------------

*Create app specific reference group for advancement report writers*

#. Create `app:congos:service:ref:advancement_report_writer`.
#. Add `...:ref:advancement_report_writers` to `...:cg_adv_report_writer_allow`.
#. Add read/update privileges to `cg_adv_manager` to `cg_adv_report_writer_allow`.

----------------
Exercise 201.5.4
----------------

*Add attestation*

#. Add attestation requirement for `advancement_report_writer`.



.. |rightarrow| unicode:: U+2192

.. _Grouper Deployment Guide: https://spaces.at.internet2.edu/display/Grouper/Grouper+Deployment+Guide+Work+-TIER+Program
