====================================
GTE 201.1 Basis and Reference Groups
====================================

-------------------
Learning Objectives
-------------------

* Create and manage reference and basis groups
* Understand the difference between reference groups and basis groups
* Implement lifecycle requirements for subject attributes

--------------
Lab Components
--------------

* Grouper
* `Grouper Deployment Guide`_

--------
Overview
--------

Often the best source of data for building institutional meaningful cohorts is a
combination of arcane employee/payroll/student codes from multiple source systems.
To leverage the power of Grouper these groups should be brought in as raw **basis groups**. 

Basis groups are used by the IAM analyst to construct institutional meaningful
cohorts that are required for access policy.  Access policy does not reference
basis groups directly, rather the basis groups are used to build up reference
groups.  This indirection provides the IAM analyst the ability to adjust to
changing source systems and business practices while keeping reference groups
and access policy relatively stable. Basis groups are typically only visible to
the IAM analyst, and would not normally be reflected out to applications and
directories.

Reference groups tend to be organized in particular folder locations for convenience
and ease of use, but what makes a group a reference group is not its name or folder
location, but rather its intended use, definition and scope, and data management
expectations.

A **reference group** is a set of subjects that is largely intended to be used by
reference within access policy.  Reference groups can be thought of as labels or
tags that identify institutional meaningful cohorts. In this way, they can also
be viewed as subject attributes from an ABAC perspective. Access policies often
require cohorts organized via institutional affiliation (faculty, staff, student),
a particular office or department (president's office, finance division, chaplain),
program (chemistry students), and even residence or class year. All of these are 
good examples of reference groups.

This module will focus on creating and using basis and reference groups related to
students.

----------------
Exercise 201.1.1
----------------

*Create an all student reference group to be used in access policy and the all
students mailing list*

Reference groups for student by class year already exist. These are being
used for class year mailing lists.  Membership in these are updated
automatically by loader jobs:

* `ref:student:class2019`
* `ref:student:class2020`
* `ref:student:class2021`
* `ref:student:class2022`

#. Create a new reference group representing all students, `ref:student:students`.
#. Add the class year reference groups as direct members to `students`.  How
   many students are there?  Filter by *indirect membership*.
#. You remember that recently graduated students have a grace period of 6 months
   during which they retain full student access.  Add `ref:student:class2018` to
   `ref:student:students`, and set the membership end date to Dec. 31, 2018.  How
   many students are there now?

   .. note::

        In this case, recently graduated students are still considered to be students
        for the purpose of access control.  If recent graduates only retained a few
        services, it might make more sense to add these former students to individual
        allow policies for the services in question.

----------------
Exercise 201.1.2
----------------

*Other Students*

You remember that not all students have class years assigned.  This includes part-time
students, employees taking courses, and non-matriculated students.  Fortunately data 
about these students is available in the SIS and a basis group has already been created
for us.

#. Add `basis:student:student_no_class_year` to `ref:student:students`.  How many
   students are there, now?

----------------
Exercise 201.1.3
----------------

*Exchange Students*

You campus participates in an exchange program with a sister school.  Students
from the sister school can take classes at your institution, but never have
official records in your SIS.  They do however, have a local NetID.  Registration
is done directly with the registrar and the student's home institution maintains
the student records.

#. Add `basis:student:exchange_students` to `ref:student:students`.  How many
   students are there now?

----------------
Exercise 201.1.4
----------------

*Transfer Students*

Students who transfer into your campus often need access to systems well ahead
of SIS data being fully updated.

#. Create a new basis group, `basis:student:transfer_student`.
#. Add `transfer_student` to `students` with an expiration 60 days out.
#. Add the following accounts to `transfer_student`:

    * agrady901
    * alee467
    * ascott776

#. Check how many students there are, now.  The number of students did not go up
   by 3 as you might have expected.  Why?  One of the transfer students was
   already a member of `students`.  Trace the membership on each of the transfer
   students to determine which accounts already had the `students` subject
   attribute, and why.

----------------
Exercise 201.1.5
----------------

*Change of Status*

Students who leave for a variety of reasons are given a 32 day grace period
during which they retain student access.  Basis groups for these already exist.
They include:

* `basis:student:expelled_32_days`
* `basis:student:resigned_32_days`
* `basis_student_transferred_32_days`

#. Add these basis groups to `students`.  How many students are there, now?

----------------
Exercise 201.1.6
----------------

*Leave of Absence Students*

Student may also obtain a leave of absence for a variety of reasons.  These
students may or may not return, but retain student access for an extend period
of time.  Basis groups for leave of absence students already exists:

* `basis:student:loa_4_years` (leave of absence within the last 4 years)

#. Add `loa_4_years` to `students`.  How many students are there, now?








.. _Grouper Deployment Guide: https://spaces.at.internet2.edu/display/Grouper/Grouper+Deployment+Guide+Work+-TIER+Program
